# Ratas del aire
2006-12-25

Sólo hay una manera en la que un británico de pura cepa puede responderal titular de "se contrata francotirados para eliminar las palomas deKingston". Llenar lapágina de la noticia de comentarios surrealistas. Algunos extractos:

> 
> 
> 
> What a lot of fuss over nothing. Everyone knows pigeons can't be
> killed,they are immortal and immune to bullets. Where I come from we
> worship thepigeon deity and never look them in the eye as this can turn a
> man to stone.
> 
> 

> 
> 
> 
> I'm horrified at the very idea anyone might want to harm these
> gentlecreatures. I myself was raised by pigeons after being abandoned in
> TrafalgarSquare as a young nipper. Therefore I know how noble and generous
> a speciesthey really are. If anyone were to kill a pigeon in this way, it
> would be asthough they are slaughtering one of my own family. It's murder,
> I say!
> 
> 
> 
> [...]
> 
> 
> 
> I know what you mean, reader. I was raised by yaks but I'm sure
> theexperience was similar. How about a council worker cull instead.
> 
> 

> 
> 
> 
> My elder sister was held captive for nine days by a flock of rock pigeons
> ona small island near Malta in 1979 - it may have been Gozo but I'm not
> toosure. (Sorry about that.) As you might gather she suffers from
> nightmaresand flashbacks but she has also developed a loathing of millet
> seeds forsome strange reason. She is in full support of the cull and, in
> actual fact,she has already applied for the job and fully intends to carry
> out herduties as soon as possible - whether she gets the job or not. Be
> carefularound town folks - she's not a good shot.
> 
>
