# Ripping

## Media

=> https://arstechnica.com/civis/threads/ripping-optical-media.1507399/post-43734994 Main source

### Audio CD

About 200-300 MB per album CD when ripped to FLAC.

### DVD

About 4-8 GB per disc, averaging 5.6 GB per movie as ISO.

### Blu-ray

About 20-50 GB per disc, averaging 37 GB per movie as ISO.

## Hardware

### Reader

I got a Verbatim external USB Blu-ray writer for about 120€.

### Storage

=> https://diskprices.com/ See diskprices.com

## Software

### Audio

=> https://abcde.einval.com/wiki/ abcde  claims to rip and compress to FLAC and tag automatically.

### DVD

Use dd to rip DVD. However, dd can fail on some disks, perhaps due to damage or copy protection.

=> https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/642790 This post on unix.stackexchange describes a trick that works:

* Start playback of the disc using VLC.
* Try dd first, if it fails, then run a command like "ddrescue -n -b2048 -K1M /dev/sr0 x.iso x.map".
* After dd or ddrescue starts running, quit VLC.

For playback, most software (including Kodi and VLC for Android) can play back DVD ISO with full menu support

### Blu-ray

=> http://fvonline-db.bplaced.net/ FindVUK has the keys to play Blu-ray discs ripped with dd.

However, with encrypted Blu-ray discs, you need to configure the keys in each device where you want to play back the content. (And this is not easy or possible in some cases.)

=> https://git.sr.ht/~shironeko/blu-save blu-save can remove the encryption.

Remember to specify the path to the keys when running blu-save.

However, VLC is confused by the AACS and CERTIFICATE directories that blu-save copies to the output. If you remove them, then VLC can play the BDMV directory with menus, etc.

You can repack a Blu-ray extracted with blu-save by running a command like:

```
mkisofs -allow-limited-size -o .../my.iso .
```

from the directory that contains *only* the BDMV directory.

VLC for desktop computers can open a repacked Blu-ray ISO and show the menus. Kodi for Android can open a repacked Blu-ray ISO and identify the titles. However, Kodi did not support the menus for the Blu-ray I tested.
