# Splicing MKVs

Just some additional notes on top of:

=> https://mod16.org/hurfdurf/?p=8 101 things you never knew you could do with Matroska

You can use MKVToolNix to create MKV files that combine content from several files:

=> https://mkvtoolnix.download/ MKVToolNix – Matroska tools for Linux/Unix and Windows

## Requirements

Some MKV files.

## Procedure

Open MKVToolNix GUI.

### Creating the chapter file

Go to the "chapter editor".

Click "new".

Select the "edition entry" and check the "ordered" option.

Select the first chapter.

Click on the file selector for "segment UID" and choose the MKV file that contains the first segment.

Fill the "start & end" fields with the segment of the MKV file that you want to include.

Right click on the chapter in the list of editions and chapter and select "add new chapter after".

Select the second chapter and select another file for "segment UID" and new start and end fields.

Repeat the process until you have all segments.

In the "chapter editor" menu, select "save as XML file" to create a chapter file.

### Generating an MKV file from an XML chapter file

Go to the "multiplexer".

Select the "output" tab.

Click the file selector for "chapter file" and select the chapter file from the previous step.

Set the "destination file".

Click "start multiplexing".

## Additional information

### Extracting precise frame information with mpv

Run:

```
mpv --osd-fractions file.mkv
```

To open file.mkv and show timestamps with millisecond precision.

Press shift+o to show timestamps continously.

Use the "." and "," keys to skip frame by frame.
