# Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Detachable Gen 1

This is the laptop I use for work for a few months now.
The laptop is leased, and was built on late 2021.

## Linux compatibility

Linux has several problems:

* The keyboard is really a USB device (it is detachable), and you can only switch ctrl+fn using a Windows app.
  [I investigated how to do this from Linux without much success.](https://github.com/alexpdp7/lenovo-thinkpad-x12-detachable-gen1-swap-ctrl-fn-linux)
  This is really painful for me, and the main reason for using Windows.

* Apparently, you cannot use the volume control keys in Linux either.
  However, I do not use those in Windows so I don't care.

* If you search the Internet, I think you will find more issues, but I have not used the laptop with Linux enough to experience them.

## Form factor

One of the main reasons for picking this laptop is that it's very light.
The laptop with keyboard weighs 1.1kg.

The keyboard is detachable, which has pros and cons:

* You cannot comfortably use the laptop on your lap.
* However, detaching the keyboard and using it as a portrait tablet to read documentation is great.

### Keyboard

The keyboard is very good, but slightly inferior to a full ThinkPad keyboard:

* There is no insert key.
* For me, muscle memory does not work well when switching to a full ThinkPad keyboard.

However, it still is a pleasant keyboard to use.

### Screen

The screen looks good.
But because it is glossy, sometimes I have issues with reflections.

### Battery

I have only used the battery when it was three years old already.
I can use the laptop for about 4 hours of somewhat intensive usage (some calls, working with compiled languages and LSP).

### Pen

Unfortunately, the leaser did not deliver a pen.

## Others

Besides what's been mentioned, I do not find any other problem with the laptop.
