# Ratas del aire
2006-12-25

S칩lo hay una manera en la que un brit치nico de pura cepa puede responder al titular de "se contrata francotirados para eliminar las palomas de Kingston". Llenar la p치gina de la noticia [1] de comentarios surrealistas. Algunos extractos:

=> http://www.surreycomet.co.uk/pigeoncomments/display.var.1039169.0.marksman_called_in_to_kill_kingstons_pigeons.php [1] la p치gina de la noticia

>
>
>
> What a lot of fuss over nothing. Everyone knows pigeons can't be killed,
> they are immortal and immune to bullets. Where I come from we worship the
> pigeon deity and never look them in the eye as this can turn a man to
> stone.
>
>

>
>
>
> I'm horrified at the very idea anyone might want to harm these gentle
> creatures. I myself was raised by pigeons after being abandoned in
> Trafalgar Square as a young nipper. Therefore I know how noble and
> generous a species they really are. If anyone were to kill a pigeon in
> this way, it would be as though they are slaughtering one of my own
> family. It's murder, I say!
>
>
>
> [...]
>
>
>
> I know what you mean, reader. I was raised by yaks but I'm sure the
> experience was similar. How about a council worker cull instead.
>
>

>
>
>
> My elder sister was held captive for nine days by a flock of rock pigeons
> on a small island near Malta in 1979 - it may have been Gozo but I'm not
> too sure. (Sorry about that.) As you might gather she suffers from
> nightmares and flashbacks but she has also developed a loathing of millet
> seeds for some strange reason. She is in full support of the cull and, in
> actual fact, she has already applied for the job and fully intends to
> carry out her duties as soon as possible - whether she gets the job or
> not. Be careful around town folks - she's not a good shot.
>
>
