# About Álex Córcoles

## About my name

My legal name is Alejandro Córcoles Briongos. It follows Spanish naming customs[1], so Alejandro is the given name chosen by my parents, Córcoles is my father's first last name, and Briongos is my mother's first last name.

=> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spanish_naming_customs [1] Spanish naming customs

Alejandro is the Spanish adaptation of the Greek Ἀλέξανδρος/Aléxandros, meaning protector of men.

Córcoles has a diacritic on the first "o", which is where the stress is. In Spanish, if you don't write the diacritic, then the stress would be in the second "o" (Spanish pronunciation is mostly deterministic). While the correct spelling uses the diacritic, omitting the diacritic is fine and unlikely to have any negative effect. I omit the diacritic myself in when I fear non-ASCII characters are going to be an issue. Some sources[1] relate Córcoles to "quercus", the Latin word for oak. There is both a river and a town in Spain named Córcoles (the river doesn't go anywhere near the town, but both are located in Castilla-La Mancha).

=> https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/R%C3%ADo_C%C3%B3rcoles#Toponimia [1] The origin of the name of the Córcoles river in Wikipedia (Spanish)

Briongos is a very common surname in Arauzo de Torre, the hometown of my mother and grandmother. One historian in the town has traced the genealogical tree for the Briongos in the town up to the 16th century. Apparently[1], it may be related to the plant Bryonia alba, common in Burgos.

=> https://www.turismoarlanza.es/es/briongos-de-cervera/ [1] A page discussing the origin of the name of the town Briongos de Cervera (Spanish)

Both of my surnames are rare. There are about 7000 Spaniards with Córcoles as one or both surnames, making it 400 times less frequent than the most common Spanish surname (García). Briongos is even rarer, with only 1000 Spaniards having the surname, making it 3000 times less frequent than García. There are only four pages of Google search results for "Córcoles Briongos", and all of them are either about my brother or me.

There are many Alejandro Córcoles, and even some relatively famous Córcoles (Raquel Córcoles is an illustrator well-known as "Moderna de Pueblo" in Spain, and a Spanish footballer called David Córcoles played a UEFA Champions League match).

I am very used to my name being mispronounced or incorrectly written, even by native Spanish speakers. In case you *need* to know the proper pronunciation of my name, here are two recordings I made:

=> https://nextcloud.pdp7.net/nextcloud/index.php/s/GBw2GbcTMLHQZbg How I pronounce Alejandro Córcoles Briongos
=> https://nextcloud.pdp7.net/nextcloud/index.php/s/TQqjEtbC57Sncd9 How I pronounce Álex Córcoles

I normally introduce myself as Álex, as that's what I'm more used to being called outside my closest family. It's shorter and easier to pronounce (many languages don't have the Spanish hard "j" sound). I have never met another Álex Córcoles, so that's what I normally use when there may be other Álex/Alejandros around. ACB can be confusing, as the Spanish basketball association has the same initials.
